---
layout: post
title: TDD
description: ''
date: '2021-04-06T12:13:45.562Z'
note:
categories: test
publish: true
---

## Introduction

TDD is a kind of software development process by writing test first and then keeping testing the software until all required function developed. The steps:

* turn business logic into specifications
* decompose specifications into functions (MVC)
* define all desired input and output of each function
* write test first for every function
* given the tests, compose codebase to realize business logic

## Why

TDD reduces bugs and increase the quality of code, making software to be more maintainable and understandable. With no test, there would be more manual test in the future and it would be hard to update the version.

## How?

### The Different Types of Specification And The Frequency of Testing

1. Model specs — **always**
2. System specs/feature specs — **always**
3. Request specs/controller specs — **rarely**
4. Helper specs — **rarely**
5. View specs — **never**
6. Routing specs — **never**
7. Mailer specs — **never**
8. Job specs — **never**

### AAA principle (Arrange -> Act -> Assert)

> The basic principle to build spec is AAA principle.
> **arrange:** describe the environment before action begin
> **act:** execute the unit function that we want to test
> **assert:** check whether the result is what we want

#### AAA principle maps Rspec

```ruby
RSpec.describe "the_summary", type: :feature do

  context "arrange" do
    it "assertion" do
      "act"
    end
  end
end
```

[rspec]

#### AAA principle maps Jest

```javascript
describe('Test sum', () => {
  test('adds 1 + 2 to equal 3', () => { // arrange
    const a = 1;
    const b = 2;
    it('should add them correctly', () => { // assert
      expect(a + b).toBe(3); // act
    });
  })
})
```

[jest]({{site.baseurl}}/test/2023/01/01/jest.html)

## What?

### Practical example

For example, a woodcutter go into a forest (**arrange** the environment) -> the woodcutter use the axe to cut the wood (**act** the function) -> and the woodcutter should get the woods (**assert** the result). If the woodcutter does not like the result, woodcutter should modify the **act**.

### Generate Specification

In terminal, create a directory, model, and test as follow

#### directory & rspec installing

```bash
mkdir woodcutter
cd woodcutter
gem install rspec
```

#### model & rspec

```bash
touch woodcutter.rb
mkdir spec
cd spec
touch woodcutter_spec.rb
```

In `woodcutter_spec.rb`,

```ruby
require_relative '../woodcutter'

describe Woodcutter do
  context "after woodcutter enter the forest" do
    it "get a wood" do
      woodcutter = Woodcutter.new(true, 0)
      woodcutter.cut
      expect(woodcutter.woods).to be 1
    end
  end
end
```

In the params of `new`, true means the woodcutter now is in forest and 0 means the number of wood the cutter has.

After the spec (or test) done, different steps trigger on different mindset. Given, the TDD or BDD mindset, we should run the `woodcutter_spec.rb` multiple times until the `woodcutter.rb` achieves the demand in `woodcutter_spec.rb`

### Build the feature

#### Execute RSpec iteratively

```bash
rspec woodcutter_spec.rb
```

Given the errors from RSpec, I can gradully build the feature as follow.

1. NameError: uninitialized constant Woodcutter => create `Woodcutter` in `woodcutter.rb`

2. ArgumentError: wrong number of arguments (given 1, expected 0) => create `initialize` method in `Woodcutter` with params, `in_forest` & `init_count`

3. NoMethodError: undefined method 'cut' => create `cut` method

4. NoMethodError: undefined method 'woods' => create `woods` method

5. expected #<Integer:3> => 1, got #<NilClass:8> => nil => add the `@quantity` in `initialize`, `cut`, and `woods` as follow

   1. `@quantity = init_count` in `initialize`

   2. `@quantity += 1` in `cut`

   3. `@quantity` in `woods`

Then the whole class:

```ruby
class Woodcutter
  def initialize(in_forest, init_count)
    @quantity = init_count
  end

  def cut
    @quantity += 1
  end

  def woods
    @quantity
  end
end
```

#### Environment

We should add another class for woodcutter to walk into the forest and add `before` block to setup the environment.

skip

### Reference

[**Learn TDD in Rails Learn TDD**](https://learntdd.in/rails/)

[**Ruby on Rails 實戰聖經**](https://ihower.tw/rails/testing.html)

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development)

[**Hello Testing - iT 邦幫忙::一起幫忙解決難題，拯救 IT 人的一天**](https://ithelp.ithome.com.tw/articles/10185338)

[**What are the different kinds of Rails tests and when should I use each? - Code with Jason**](https://www.codewithjason.com/different-kinds-rails-tests-use/)

[**teamcapybara/capybara**](https://github.com/teamcapybara/capybara#using-capybara-with-rspec)

[**rspec/rspec-rails**](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails)