---
layout: post
title:
description: ''
<<<<<<< HEAD
date: ''
categories:
note:
=======
date: '2022-09-02'
categories: test
note: 我覺得 testing 這邊太亂了，應該從例子出發
>>>>>>> ff80312f2d6720c01d41ef3e288880f2a0937b72
mathjax:
mermaid:
p5:
threeJS:
anchor:
<<<<<<< HEAD
publish:
=======
publish: true
>>>>>>> ff80312f2d6720c01d41ef3e288880f2a0937b72
---

## Introduction

This article tries to clarify

* concept of testing
<<<<<<< HEAD
* unit testing
* integration testing
=======
* integration testing
* unit testing
>>>>>>> ff80312f2d6720c01d41ef3e288880f2a0937b72
* functional testing
* test driven development
* behavior driven development

## Why?

Tests can prevent bugs earlier.

## How?

### concept of testing

<<<<<<< HEAD
end to end -> integration testing -> unit testing

### unit testing



## What?

give an example
=======
Add pyramid to demo the decomposition of tests end-to-end -> integration -> unit (TBC)

The end goal of testing is to make sure users have good experience, so before users use our app, we should let testers do what users will do in all scenarios and check whether the experience is acceptable. We call this kind of tests end-to-end test or quality assurance.

### integration testing

During the end-to-end testing, there must be some fix processes, and we can automize them with integration testing, which simulates the users behaviors on **browsers** and ensure the expect results.

### unit testing

Unit tests mainly ensures the input and output of each components such as code for database query, flows in controller, and the presentation on view, but it do not simulate the users' behaviors.

### functional testing

TBC

### test driven development

TDD maps to unit testing. We write unit test first and then develop software.

### behavior driven development

BDD maps to integration testing. We write feature test first and then develop software.

## What?

### TDD

TDD maps unit test maps Rspec. Refer to 2021-11-25-TDD.md.

### BDD

BDD maps integration test maps capybara + Rspec. Refer to 2022-08-31-behavior-driven-development-in-rspec-and-capybara.md.
>>>>>>> ff80312f2d6720c01d41ef3e288880f2a0937b72

## Reference

[What is Software Testing? Definition](https://www.guru99.com/software-testing-introduction-importance.html)

[Testing Pyramid : How to jumpstart Test Automation](https://www.browserstack.com/guide/testing-pyramid-for-test-automation)
