---
layout: post
title:
description: ''
date: '2022-08-30'
categories: web-security
note:
mathjax:
mermaid:
p5:
threeJS:
anchor:
publish: true
---

## Introduction

By OWASP, the top 10 attack methods:

* Injection: Injection attacks occur when untrusted data is sent to an interpreter as part of a command or query.
* Broken Authentication and Session Management: This covers a range of security issues related to user authentication and session management, including weak passwords, session hijacking, and broken logout functionality.
* Cross-Site Scripting (XSS): XSS attacks allow an attacker to inject malicious code into a web page viewed by other users.
* Broken Access Control: This includes security issues related to controlling access to resources, such as unauthorized access to sensitive data or functionality.
* Security Misconfiguration: This covers a range of security issues related to misconfigured web servers, applications, and frameworks.
* Sensitive Data Exposure: This refers to the exposure of sensitive information, such as passwords, credit card numbers, and other personal data, through inadequate encryption or storage practices.
* Insufficient Logging and Monitoring: This covers a range of security issues related to the lack of proper logging and monitoring, which can make it difficult to detect and respond to security incidents.
* Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF): CSRF attacks trick a user into performing actions on a website without their knowledge or consent.
* Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities: This refers to the use of third-party components, such as libraries and frameworks, that have known security vulnerabilities.
* Insufficient Authorization and Authentication: This covers a range of security issues related to ensuring that users are properly authenticated and authorized to access sensitive data or functionality.

## Why?

Prevent malware

## How?

This section will explain the mechanisms of each attack so that we can have deeper understanding about how to solve it in what section.

### injection flaws

injection flaws: Attacks server side. Attacker injects SQL commands to a webpage through legal inputs and server runs it and get sick; for example, remove data stored in database.

```javascript
to be continued
```

### cross site scripting (XSS)

to be continued, going to show how to do XSS

### Broken Access Control

to be continued

### Security Misconfiguration

to be continued

### Sensitive Data Exposure

to be continued

### Insufficient Logging and Monitoring

to be continued

### Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)

CSRF is a type of attack that allows a malicious website to perform actions on behalf of a user who is logged into a different website. For example, an attacker could trick a user into clicking a link that submits a form to their bank's website, transferring money to the attacker's account. To prevent CSRF attacks, web applications often use a token that is attached to each form submission and checked on the server to ensure that the request is coming from the same site that generated the form.

Attackers can hide malware in seeable places for logged-in users, who have sessions and is authenticated, to click it and then sent unwanted requests to server with the session in cookie.

Solutions:

* Synchronizer Token Pattern: This method adds a unique token to each HTTP request, which the server then verifies before processing the request.
* Same-Site Cookies: This method sets the SameSite attribute of a cookie, which tells the browser to only send the cookie with requests made on the same website.
* Double Submit Cookies: This method adds a unique token to both the cookie and the form data, and then verifies that they match on the server.
* Recaptcha v3
* Use of frameworks that have built-in CSRF protection mechanisms.

### Insufficient Authorization and Authentication

insecure direct object reference: Attackers can get information by changing parameters sent to server. To solve it, we use session in cookie to store currently logged-in user and only response the data related to this user.

## What?

### XSS

solve it with CORS

CORS helps to prevent cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks and provides a secure mechanism for sharing resources between different domains. Without CORS, a web application running on one domain would not be able to access resources or data on another domain, even if the user has authorized the request. This can limit the functionality and interoperability of web applications and prevent the sharing of data between sites.

### CSRF

I want to use the [concept of JWT]({{site.baseurl}}/api/2022/08/17/authentication.html#jwt) because JWT check token on each request, which naturally prevent CSRF. However, it may encounter XSS because now the token is accessible on frontend. But react itself can prevent it.

With the JWT design, we can disable CORS checks as follow in node

```javascript
app.use(function (req, res, next) {
  // Website you wish to allow to connect
  res.setHeader('Access-Control-Allow-Origin', 'http://localhost:3000');
  // Request methods you wish to allow
  res.setHeader('Access-Control-Allow-Methods', 'GET, POST, OPTIONS, PUT, PATCH, DELETE');
  // Request headers you wish to allow
  res.setHeader('Access-Control-Allow-Headers', 'X-Requested-With,content-type');
  // Set to true if you need the website to include cookies in the requests sent to the API (e.g. in case you use sessions)
  res.setHeader('Access-Control-Allow-Credentials', true);
  // Pass to next layer of middleware
  next();
});
```

## Reference

[OWASP十大網路應用系統安全弱點說明](https://www.gss.com.tw/eis/59-eis48/290-owasp-top10)

[SSL, TLS, HTTP, HTTPS Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hExRDVZHhig)

[Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EoaDgUgS6QA)

[2017 OWASP Top 10: Injection Attacks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rWHvp7rUka8)

[React CSRF Protection Guide: Examples and How to Enable It](https://www.stackhawk.com/blog/react-csrf-protection-guide-examples-and-how-to-enable-it/)

[With anonymous cookies](https://security.stackexchange.com/questions/59411/how-to-protect-against-login-csrf)

[Registration and Login with JWT Authentication Tutorial - NodeJS Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b9WlsQMGWMQ)
