---
layout: post
title: Overview
description:
date: '2021-12-12'
categories: personal
note: 
---

## Intro

This article expresses my observations towards myself.

## Why

Personally, I have had a life always seeking for truth. These articles are part of it. I had been always asking why; that is, as a human-being, why I lived in this world.

## How

Fortunately, I met my master several years ago and I appreciate the enlighted mind he gave me. However, instead of just following him and ignore literally anything, based on his persepctive toward life, I truly needs some space for digestion.

I can easily decompose myself into outer and inner aspect. In the outer aspect, based on the system, I know ability growthing stands out for survival. To survive and extend my life, I need to modify myself to fit in the system, meaning inevitable try and errors.

Given these errors, sometimes we can pass and the abilities grow, but some errors becomes frustration, turning into a kind of inner exploration; for example, I knew I was poor and I do not have qulifications to express myself to powerful people in this system and the only way is to become stronger; however, during this process, I may accidentally hurt someone or myself. Because of no reversion, these permantate hurt lives in inner world.

The beauty of inner world lies on no standard answer and I personally think it seperates human and animals. Human-beings have the beautiful sensory organs and minds. Based on my interests, I had mainly four fields to explore my inner domain as follow:

1. Music
2. Computer Science
3. Economics
4. Social Interaction

Noted that all these explorations are just kind of life-extending strategy and the most intuitive way to achieve it for literally any human-being are to give birth to someone, meaning that lots of human-beings do things really to have sex. In this perspective, maybe I just try to get rid of the implusion. However, because of the implusion, we have the eagerness to pursue tranquil status. All activities are just human trying to get tranquil status.

## What

Please select a topic a day to fullfill myself and hopefully this behavior is not a kind of escape. The feelings of flow in the inner world are too good and defines myself. I know that I will achieve the biggest achievement one day.

### Music

Music is a safe way to express myself and build the inner world.

### Economics

Economics lets me understand the operation of this outter system.

### Computer Science

CS is really a tool for me to survive in this outer game.

### Social Interaction

Social Interaction is a tool for me to survive in this outer game and try to keep as tranquil as possible in the inner world.
