---
layout: post
title:
description:
date: '1993-09-01'
categories: self
note:
mermaid: true
publish:
---

## Introduction

This article records my thoughts about meaning of life.

## Why?

When I need guidance and inspiration.

## How?

<div class="mermaid">
graph TD
  id1((life)) --> id2((body))
  id1((life)) --> id3((mental))
  id1((life)) --> id4((spirit))

  id2((body)) --> id5((health))
  id2((body)) --> id6((finance))

  id3((mental)) --> id7((emotion))
  id3((mental)) --> id8((relationship))

  id4((spirit)) --> id9((take))
  id4((spirit)) --> id10((leave))
</div>

## What

### health

1. average 8 hr sleeps per day
2. more vegetables
3. wake up at 5:30 -> use sleep cycle app
4. more entertainments: guitar, writing, side projects, taking lessons, videos, ...etc

### financial status

1. try to get full remote job -> react, node, blockchain, tensorflow
   1. forget about Vue
2. try to increase income 50% annually
3. keep expense 33K monthly

### emotion

1. try to like myself -> write achievement down
2. try to believe in future
3. try to smile

### relationship

1. try to love family
2. try to make more friends
3. try to be good to a person
4. try to help colleagues more

#### romantic relationship

There is no correct way to deal with relationship. Only try and error

Three steps:

* values: can we communicate with each other?
  * awareness -> tolerance -> understanding -> Non-defensive listening -> Empathy -> find the good reason to be better
* she should be loved: whether she is a good person?
  * perspective: inner & outer
  * on the inner side, whether she notice she as a human can harm others?
    * Actually, yes, she knows it and try to avoid it although still immature
  * on the outer side, whether she is forced to harm others?
    * she keep breaking up because she is not confident and insecure
    * on the other hand, she did not respect me
* I feel loved: is she use what I like to love me?
  * quality time > words of affirmation = physical touch > acts of service > receiving gifts

### take

The enlightenment level

1. try to meditate more
2. try to report everyday
3. try to care people

### projects

1. The only reason Vue over React is Vue uses html, meaning if the app is only for desktop usage, we should use it. So I think it matches the electrons here.

## reference

[你有沒有用「對的方式」和另一半溝通？在一段感情裡該盡的6個責任](https://www.cheers.com.tw/article/article.action?id=5086689)

[愛的 5 種語言](https://5lovelanguages.com/learn)

[Jordan Peterson - Are You a Good Person?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uj1iQiJo3Cg)
