---
layout: post
title: (design) overview
description: ''
date: '2022-01-11'
categories: design
note: Actually, this design progress fits to any form of product, not just software
mermaid: true
---

## Introduction

How to turn real world idea into software? We need concepts of design. We need pattern for general, reusable solution to common problem, ...etc

## Why?

1. Speed up the development process
2. Obtain skills to get into a senior role
3. create own Apps

## How?

The basic steps would be as follow:
1. compose as many user stories about 'only one' scenario. You can add other scenarios after you complete the development and the template as follow: `As a < type of user >, I want < some goal > so that < some reason >.`
2. write specifications based on the user stories by expanding it and should have lots of details, assuming reader knows nothing, lots of words
3. define the objects and the relationships between them in this system
4. compose the classes based on the relationships such `belongs_to` & `has_one`, ... and create needed classes for these relationships
5. define the attributes of an object in the classes so that we can define the columns
6. define the methods in the objects
7. draw the relationship of these classes and make sure theses relationships are super flexible

## What?

User story: As a person who like to sing, I want key recognition through sounds so that I can compose it later.

Specification: As a person like to sing, after I upload my recorded mp3, and click 'recognition' button, I want key recognition through sounds and convert into music sheet so that I can compose it later through editor.

Based on the specification, we can start to define the classes. We need classes and relationships as follow:
<div class="mermaid">
classDiagram
  User --> Record : has many
  
  User : firstName:string
  User : lastName:string
  User : email:string
  User : dateOfBirth:date
  User : age()
  
  Record --> Sheet : has many

  Record : name:string
  Record : file:BLOB
  Record : converted:boolean

  Sheet : file:TEXT
</div>

## Reference

[Software Design Tutorial #1 - Software Engineering & Software Architecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FLtqAi7WNBY)


[How To Write A Project Specification](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MCXi4KtRTG0)
