---
layout: post
title: (DB x) ORM
description: ''
date: '2022-01-04'
categories: DB
note: 
---

## Introduction

ORM is the abstraction of object relational mapping, letting programs query and manipulate data from database with object-oriented paradigm.

## Why?

With ORM, the pros:
1. DRY: easier to maintain with the structure of model
2. Miscellaneous task such as database connection ...etc done automatically
3. MVC structure enforced, making cleaner code structure
4. No more SQL needed, making consistent coding style
5. Abstract database system, so you can change it all the time
6. OOP structure (hard to implement it to plain SQL)

## How?

Given the why, I am going to explain how they were done.

### OOP & DRY

skip

### MVC structure

skip

### Mscellaneous tasks

skip

### Abstract database

ORM uses Doctrine Database Abstraction Layer to serve as translator between database and programs.

#### Doctrine Database Abstraction

to be continued once I understand the implementation in rails.


## What?

I think I should truly CRUD methods in rails console

Rails -> Model -> ApplicationRecord -> Active Record (ORM system) -> (start to read the source code) -> CRUD methods
1. `create`: in `activerecord/lib/active_record/relation.rb`
   1. `_create` in `association_relation.rb`
   2. 
2. `find`: in `activerecord/lib/active_record/core.rb`
3. `update`: in `activerecord/lib/active_record/persistence.rb`
4. `destroy`: in `activerecord/lib/active_record/persistence.rb`

please refer to **(rails) Active Record** of this website for how rails build active record.
## Reference

[What is an ORM, how does it work, and how should I use one?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1279613/what-is-an-orm-how-does-it-work-and-how-should-i-use-one)

[Active Record Basics](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_basics.html)

