---
layout: post
title:
description:
date: '1993-09-01'
categories: self
note:
mermaid: true
publish:
---

## Introduction

This article records my thoughts about meaning of life.

### why to live?

* philosophical and existential question that has been explored by many thinkers throughout history
* possible answers
  * finding meaning and purpose
  * experiencing joy and happiness
  * pursuing personal growth and self-actualization
  * making a positive impact on others
  * contributing to society
  * fulfilling religious or spiritual beliefs

## Why?

When I need guidance and inspiration.

## How?

<div class="mermaid">
graph TD
  id1((life)) --> id2((body))
  id1((life)) --> id3((mental))
  id1((life)) --> id4((spirit))

  id2((body)) --> id5((health))
  id2((body)) --> id6((finance))

  id3((mental)) --> id7((emotion))
  id3((mental)) --> id8((relationship))

  id4((spirit)) --> id9((take))
  id4((spirit)) --> id10((leave))
</div>

## What

### health

* wake up at 5:30 -> use sleep cycle app

### financial status

* try to increase income 50% annually
* keep expense 33K monthly

### emotion

* try to believe in future
* try to smile

### relationship

* try to love family
* try to make more friends
* try to be good to a person

#### romantic relationship

There is no correct way to deal with relationship. Only try and error

Three steps:

* values: can we communicate with each other?
  * awareness -> tolerance -> understanding -> Non-defensive listening -> Empathy -> find the good reason to be better
* she should be loved: whether she is a good person?
  * perspective: inner & outer
  * on the inner side, whether she notice she as a human can harm others?
    * Actually, yes, she knows it and try to avoid it although still immature
  * on the outer side, whether she is forced to harm others?
    * she keep breaking up because she is not confident and insecure
    * on the other hand, she did not respect me
* I feel loved: is she use what I like to love me?
  * quality time > words of affirmation = physical touch > acts of service > receiving gifts

### take

The enlightenment level

* try to meditate more
* try to report everyday
* try to care people

## reference

[你有沒有用「對的方式」和另一半溝通？在一段感情裡該盡的6個責任](https://www.cheers.com.tw/article/article.action?id=5086689)

[愛的 5 種語言](https://5lovelanguages.com/learn)

[Jordan Peterson - Are You a Good Person?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uj1iQiJo3Cg)
