---
layout: post
title:
description: ''
date: '2023-02-04'
categories: self
note:
mathjax:
mermaid:
p5:
threeJS:
anchor:
publish: true
---

## Introduction

Software refers to a set of instructions or programs that tell a computer what to do. It encompasses all the applications, programs, and data that run on digital devices, enabling them to perform various tasks and functions.

## Why?

For me as web developer
* Automate repetitive tasks
* Improved job performance
* Enhanced creativity of future

## How?

Software is a set of instructions and data that tell a computer what to do

### System software

This type of software is designed to manage and control the hardware and software resources of a computer system. Examples include operating systems like Windows, macOS, and Linux, as well as device drivers and utility programs like antivirus software and disk management tools. For more information, please refer to [operating systems]({{site.baseurl}}/os/2023/04/02/overview.html).

### Application software

This type of software is designed for specific tasks or applications, such as word processing, spreadsheet creation, email management, and graphic design. Examples include Microsoft Office, Adobe Creative Suite, and Google Chrome.
  * Web application
    * Plan and Design: [Plan and design]() the user interface and functionality of your web application. Decide on the features you want to include and how users will interact with the application.
      * Server-side rendering
        * Advantage: Efficient search engine indexing, better performance on low-powered devices, and improved accessibility
        * Concept: Generates the HTML content on the server and sending it to the client's web browser for display
        * Example: rails
      * Client-side rendering with a separation of concerns
        * Advantage: This approach offers a more interactive and responsive user experience since the client can manipulate the DOM and fetch data asynchronously without full page reloads.
        * Concept: the server primarily serves static assets (HTML, CSS, JavaScript), and the web application is responsible for rendering the content dynamically on the client-side.
        * Example: React + Node
    * Develop: Write the code for your web application, including the frontend (user interface) and the backend (server-side logic). This may involve using frameworks and tools such as [React]({{site.baseurl}}/react/2021/06/13/react.html), [Vue.js](), Angular, [Node.js]({{site.baseurl}}/node/2022/12/30/node.html), or [Ruby on Rails]({{site.baseurl}}/rails/2023/01/01/rails.html), depending on your programming language of choice.
    * Deploy and Maintain: [Deploy] your web application to a web server and maintain it by regularly updating it with bug fixes and [security]({{site.baseurl}}/web-security/2022/08/30/web-security.html) patches. This may also involve [scaling]() the application to handle increased traffic or integrating it with other systems or [APIs]({{site.baseurl}}/api/2021/02/18/application-programming-interface.html).
  * Non-web application

### Embedded software

This type of software is designed to control and manage hardware devices and systems, and is often built into the devices themselves. Examples include the software that controls a car's engine, a digital camera's image processing, or a smart thermostat's temperature control.

### Concepts

[Data Structures and Algorithms (DSA)]({{site.baseurl}}/dsa/2021/11/25/data-structure-and-algorithm.html) are essential foundations in software development, providing the tools and techniques to organize and manipulate data efficiently, optimize code performance, and solve complex problems in a systematic and scalable manner. Mastery of DSA enables developers to design robust software solutions, improve algorithmic efficiency, and create optimized code for various applications and domains.

#### Bit

Bit manipulation involves performing operations on individual bits within a binary representation of data.

* Bitwise AND (&)
  * This operation compares corresponding bits from two numbers and returns a new number where each bit is set if and only if the corresponding bits in both numbers are also set.
  * table
    ```bash
    0 & 0 = 0
    0 & 1 = 0
    1 & 0 = 0
    1 & 1 = 1
    ```
* Bitwise OR (|)
  * This operation compares corresponding bits from two numbers and returns a new number where each bit is set if either of the corresponding bits in the input numbers is set.
  * table
    ```bash
    0 | 0 = 0
    0 | 1 = 1
    1 | 0 = 1
    1 | 1 = 1
    ```
* Bitwise XOR (^):
  * This operation compares corresponding bits from two numbers and returns a new number where each bit is set if the corresponding bits in the input numbers are **different**.
  * table
    ```bash  
    0 ^ 0 = 0
    0 ^ 1 = 1
    1 ^ 0 = 1
    1 ^ 1 = 0
    ```
* Bitwise NOT (~):
  * This operation inverts all the bits of a number. It flips each 0 to 1 and each 1 to 0.
  * example
    ```javascript
    let x = 42 // binary: 00101010
    let notX = ~x; // binary: 11010101
    console.log(notX);  // Output: -43 (in decimal)
    ```
* Left shift (<<)
  * This operation shifts the bits of a number to the left by a specified number of positions. It is equivalent to multiplying the number by 2 raised to the power of the shift amount. For example, x << n shifts the bits of x n positions to the left.
  * example
    ```javascript
    let x = 42;  // binary: 00101010
    let shifted = x << 2;  // binary: 10101000
    console.log(shifted);  // Output: 168 (in decimal)
    ```

Right shift (>>): This operation shifts the bits of a number to the right by a specified number of positions. It is equivalent to dividing the number by 2 raised to the power of the shift amount. For example, x >> n shifts the bits of x n positions to the right.

Bit manipulation techniques:

Setting a bit: To set a particular bit in a number, you can use the bitwise OR operator with a number that has only that bit set and all other bits cleared. For example, to set the 3rd bit of a number x, you can use the expression x |= (1 << 2), where 2 represents the 0-based index of the bit you want to set.
Clearing a bit: To clear a particular bit in a number, you can use the bitwise AND operator with a number that has all bits set except for the bit you want to clear. For example, to clear the 4th bit of a number x, you can use the expression x &= ~(1 << 3).
Toggling a bit: To toggle a particular bit in a number (i.e., flip its value), you can use the bitwise XOR operator with a number that has only that bit set and all other bits cleared. For example, to toggle the 1st bit of a number x, you can use the expression x ^= (1 << 0).
Checking if a bit is set: To check if a specific bit is set in a number, you

## What?

* [blog]({{site.baseurl}}/project/1993/09/01/(project)-blog.html)
* [task]({{site.baseurl}}/project/1993/09/01/(project)-task.html)

## Reference
