---
layout: post
title:
description:
date: '2023-01-28'
categories: self
note:
mermaid: true
publish: true
---

## Introduction

This article records my thoughts about meaning of life.

## Why?

It keeps bothering me although I have family, friends, belief, career, self care, health, volunteering, creation.

## How?

Throughout history, many thinkers have explored philosophical and existential questions related to the meaning and purpose of human existence, which has led to a variety of possible answers:
* Finding meaning and purpose
* Pursuing personal growth and self-actualization
* Making a positive impact on others
* Contributing to society
* Experiencing joy and happiness
* Fulfilling religious or spiritual beliefs

## What

### Finding Meaning and Purpose

Based on [aesthetics]({{site.baseurl}}/self/2023/04/07/aesthetics.html)

My core value is humanity => I can do volunteering and actually working on them now.

### Pursuing Personal Growth and Self-Actualization

My specific goal is to build an app for humanity increasing => I tried my best to work on software.

### Making Positive Impacts on Others

I will try to find ways to

* practice active listening and empathy to better understand and support those around me
* be of service to others in your community or workplace
* spread kindness and positivity through small acts of generosity and compassion

I find it's hard for me to achieve them and the reasons may be

* Personal factors such as a lack of confidence, social anxiety, or past negative experiences -> study psychology
* External factors such as a stressful work environment, a lack of support or resources, or feeling overwhelmed by personal responsibilities -> study behavior economics
* Not knowing where to start or feeling unsure of how to make a meaningful impact -> try to land a regular volunteer events

### Contributing to society

(to be continued)

Get involved in community organizations or local government to make a difference in your community.
Donate time or resources to a cause or organization you care about.
Vote and advocate for policies and issues that align with your values.

### Experiencing joy and happiness

(to be continued)

Engage in activities that bring you joy and pleasure, such as hobbies or spending time with loved ones.
Practice mindfulness and gratitude to appreciate the present moment.
Make self-care a priority, including getting enough sleep, exercise, and nutrition.

### Fulfilling religious or spiritual beliefs

(to be continued)

Connect with a community of like-minded individuals through a place of worship or spiritual organization.
Set aside time for prayer, meditation, or reflection.
Seek out opportunities to practice compassion, forgiveness, and kindness towards others.

## reference

[你有沒有用「對的方式」和另一半溝通？在一段感情裡該盡的6個責任](https://www.cheers.com.tw/article/article.action?id=5086689)

[愛的 5 種語言](https://5lovelanguages.com/learn)

[Jordan Peterson - Are You a Good Person?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uj1iQiJo3Cg)
