---
layout: post
title:
note: 文章的重點應該要在最後要有一個實例，一個 what
date: '2021-03-02T04:18:25.484Z'
categories: rails
publish: true
---

## Introduction

This article describes the concept of model and what's the feature in it.

The statement in documentation: a model is a Ruby class that is used to represent data. Additionally, models can interact with the application's database through a feature of Rails called Active Record.

* Conventions
* Represent data (object)
* Interact with database

## Why

With model, we can use consistent commands to communicate with all type of databases such as MySQL, Postgresql, …etc.

## How

### Conventions

| model name | table name |
| :--- | :--- |
| User | users |

### Represent data (object)

Any business logic and features of an object should be put in this section.

* relation
* validation
* callback
* scope, ...

#### relation

TBC

#### validation

please refer to 2021-03-04-validation.md

#### callback

TBC

#### scope, ...

How rails design it?

* scope
* TBC

### Interact with database

* ORM
* migration

#### ORM (Object Relational Mapping)

Rails use active record to design ORM. Please refer to xxx for further information.

#### migration

Migration is like version control of database. Any changes related to database schema will be recorded in migrations with Ruby DSL. And the summary of the changes of migration is in `schema.rb`.

Typically, a migration file includes the format as follow:

```ruby
```

## What

### Example of Represent data

* relation
* validation
* callback

#### example of relation

Please refer to 2021-03-03-relation.md

#### example of validation

Please refer to 2021-03-04-validation

#### example of scope

To get all candidates with `age > 18`, in controller,

```ruby
class CandidatesController < ApplicationController  
  def index  
    @candidate_18 = Candidate.where("age > 18")  
  end
end
```

;however, if there is going to have more conditions, the code will be hard to maintain. As a result, we can use scope in model to organize the business logic as follow:

```ruby
class Candidate < ApplicationRecord  
  scope :above_18, -> { where(age > 18) }
end
```

Then the code in controller can be rewritten as

```ruby
class CandidatesController < ApplicationController
  def index  
    @candidate_18 = Candidate.above_18  
  end
end
```

* self-defined method: TBC

The key difference: if the condition of scope cannot find data, it returns all; but if the condition of self-defined method cannot find data, it returns nil. As a result, we can use Model.scope(a).scope(b).... with no worries.

default_scope is the default scope that all queries runs first.

### Example of Interact with database

* ORM

#### ORM

ORM helps user to communicate with database with the concept of object.

* Create
* Read
* Update
* Delete

To create a candidate

```ruby
user = Candidate.new(name: "aaa", age: 19)  
user.save
```

means in SQL,

```SQL
TBC
```

To read all users,

```ruby
User.all
```

means in SQL,

```SQL
SELECT * FROM users;
```

To find all table names

```ruby
ActiveRecord::Base.connection.tables
```

means in SQL,

```SQL
TBC
```

To update the candidate’s name with id = 1,

```ruby
candidate = Candidate.find_by(id: 1)  
candidate.name = "hahaha"  
candidate.save

# SQL
```

or

```ruby
candidate.update(name: "hahahaha", age: 20)

# SQL
```

To delete candidate with id = 1,

```ruby
Candidate.destroy(1)
```

means in SQL

```SQL
TBC
```

Notice! `delete` will call the SQL delete directly, so no callbacks during deleting process. By ignoring callback and relation, `delete` is faster than `destroy`.

#### Migration

TBC

* add
* delete
* migrate
* rollback

To add migration files,

if we want to create a new model, a corresponded migration file created. For example, let’s generate a model called Article with columns: title, content, is_online
```
$ rails g model Article title content:text is_online:boolean
```
Then in db/migrate, we can see a file, timestamp_create_articles.rb:
```
class CreateArticles < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.1]  
  def change  
    create_table :articles do |t|  
      t.string :title  
      t.text :content  
      t.boolean :is_online  
        
      t.timestamps  
    end  
  end  
end
```
Ｔhe change method is to create a table with title (string), content (text), is_online (boolean) and timestamp for recording `:created_at, :updated_at`

To delete migration files,

If you created wrong migration file, delete it with
```
$ rails d migration SameMigrationNameAsUsedToGenerate
```
Notice! please do it only before `db:migrate`

To migrate,

Execute the migration
```
rails db:migrate
```

To rollback,

If we want to cancel migrations; for example, we know that we want to rollback 3 steps of migrations
```
$ rails db:rollback STEP=3
```
However, the Rollback method is not recommended. We should use another migration to modify database to what we want; for example, if we want to **add a column** to an existed table, we can add another generate migration

#### Schema

If we want to know which migration ever be executed

```ruby
$ rails db:migrate:status
```

#### What migration can achieve?

create_table
change_table
drop_table
add_column
change_column
rename_column
remove_column
add_index
remove_index


(1) rename a table
```
$ rails g migration change_[old_table_name]_to_[new_table_name]
```
and migration file:
```
def change
  rename_table :[old_table_name], :[new_table_name]
end
```
(2) add a column
```
$ rails generate migration add_email_to_users
```
and migration file:
```
class AddEmailToUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration[5.0]
  def change
    add_column :users, :email, :string
  end
end
```
(3) changing column
```

```
(4) dropping table
```
$ rails generate migration drop_tablename
```
and the migration file:
```
def change
  drop_table :table_name
end
```
(5) removing column

#### Change vs Up & Down

####

## Reference

[為你自己學 Ruby on Rails 高見龍]("https://railsbook.tw/")

[change vs up & down](https://rubyinrails.com/2014/05/14/rails-migration-change-vs-up-down-methods/)

[Getting Started with Rails](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)
