---
layout: post
title:
description: ''
date: '2022-01-20'
categories: node
note:
mathjax:
mermaid:
p5:
threeJS:
anchor:
publish: true
---

## Introduction

In Node.js, a model is a JavaScript object that represents data and its behavior, commonly used in web development to handle data and perform CRUD operations.

## Why?

Using models in Node.js can improve data organization, manipulation, and management within an application, leading to increased efficiency.

## How?

To implement models in Node.js, we can use various libraries and frameworks such as Mongoose, Sequelize, or Bookshelf, which provide an ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) layer for interacting with databases and managing data models.

* For SQL, use Sequelize
* For NoSQL, use Mongoose

### sequelize

Create `./model/base.js` with `sequelize` as follow:

```javascript
import 'dotenv/config';
import Sequelize from 'sequelize';

let sequelize;
if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development') {
  sequelize = new Sequelize(process.env.DEV_DATABASE_URL);
} else if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'test') {
  sequelize = new Sequelize(process.env.TEST_DATABASE_URL);
} else {
  sequelize = new Sequelize(process.env.DATABASE_URL);
}

export default sequelize;
```

and then we can define models; for example, in `./model/user.js`

```javascript
'use strict';
const Sequelize = require('sequelize');
const sequelize = require('./index.js');

const user = sequelize.define('user', {
  name: {
    type: Sequelize.STRING
  },
  mail: {
    type: Sequelize.STRING
  },
  password: {
    type: Sequelize.STRING
  }
})

module.exports = user
```

#### Create

```javascript
const user = await User.create({
  email: email,
  password: passwordHash,
})

// or

const jane = await User.build({ name: "Jane" });
jane.save
```

#### Read

```javascript
// find last one
record = await model.findOne({ where: { key }, order: [ [ 'createdAt', 'DESC' ]], });
```

#### Update

#### Delete

### Console

You are correct that Sequelize does not have a console feature that is equivalent to the one in Rails.

While Rails console allows developers to interact with their application's environment, including its database, through a command-line interface, Sequelize is a JavaScript ORM that can be used with Node.js applications to interact with databases programmatically. It does not provide a command-line console like Rails.

However, you can use the Node.js REPL (Read-Evaluate-Print Loop) to interact with your Sequelize models in a similar way to the Rails console. The Node.js REPL is a built-in feature of Node.js that allows developers to execute JavaScript code interactively.

To use the Node.js REPL with Sequelize, you can start a Node.js process and import your Sequelize models into it. Once you have done this, you can use the Node.js REPL to interact with your models and test out various queries.

For example, assuming you have a Sequelize model for a User object, you can start a Node.js REPL by running node in your terminal, and then import your model using the following code:

javascript
Copy code
const { User } = require('./path/to/models');
Once you have imported your model, you can interact with it using the REPL by calling methods on the model, such as User.findAll() or User.create().

While this method is not exactly the same as using a console like Rails provides, it can be a useful way to interact with your Sequelize models in a command-line environment.

## What?

I use node with sequelize in my project, task

## Reference
