---
layout: post
title:
description: ''
date: '2023-04-02'
categories: OS
note:
mathjax:
mermaid:
p5:
threeJS:
anchor:
publish: true
---

## Introduction

* A software program that manages the hardware and software resources of a computer system
* Interface between computer applications and the computer hardware
* Responsible for managing the computer's memory, processing power, storage, input/output devices, and other resources.
* Types
  * desktop operating systems
    * Microsoft Windows
    * macOS
    * Linux
  * server operating systems
  * mobile operating systems
    * Android
    * iOS
  * embedded operating systems

## Why?

* To Understand how computers work at a low level for computer engineering, software development, and information technology
* To Develop efficient and effective software applications that work well with the underlying operating system
* To managing computer systems, including servers, networks, and other infrastructure. 
* To Enhance security that protect computer systems from external threats, including viruses and hackers.

## How?

### How OS Work

Overview of operating system functions, history, and types.

[How OS Works]({{site.baseurl}}/os/2021/12/04/how-os-works.html)

### Process Management

Managing processes, threads, and scheduling algorithms.

[process management]({{site.baseurl}}/os/2021/12/24/process-management.html)

### Memory Management

Memory allocation, virtual memory, and paging

### File Systems

File organization, access, and protection.

### Input/output (I/O) systems

Handling input/output devices, buffering, and interrupt handling.

### Device drivers

Writing and managing device drivers.

### Security

Authentication, access control, and security policies.

### Distributed operating systems

Distributed systems, remote procedure calls, and distributed file systems.

### Real-time operating systems

Real-time systems, scheduling, and response times.

## What

### Linux

Case Study

## Reference

Why: asking for the reason or purpose behind something.
How: asking for the method or process of doing something.
What: asking for information about a specific thing or object.
