---
layout: post
title:
description: ''
date: '2022-08-12'
categories: database
note:
mathjax:
mermaid:
p5:
threeJS:
anchor:
publish: true
---

## Introduction

A database is a structured collection of data that is organized and managed in a way that allows users to easily access, modify, and query the information stored within it. Databases are commonly used in various industries, including business, healthcare, education, and government, to efficiently store, retrieve, and analyze large amounts of data. 

## Why?

Databases provide a structured and efficient way to store, manage, and retrieve large amounts of data.

## How?

### Identify the data

After we know what problem to solve, we can start by identifying the types of data that you need to store and organize in the database.

### Choose a database management system

After we know what data types to store, we start to choose database management systems (DBMS) such as (open source only)

* Relational
  * MySQL
  * [PostgreSQL]({{site.baseurl}}/pg/2022/12/30/postgresql.html)
  * SQLite
* NoSQL
* Object-oriented

### Design the database schema

The database schema is the structure that defines how the data is organized in the database. Identify the tables, fields, and relationships between them.

### Implement the database

Create the database using your chosen DBMS and the database schema you designed.

### Populate the database

Add data to the database, either manually or through automated data migration.

### Test the database

Make sure the database is working as expected by testing its functionality, performance, and security.

### Maintain the database

Regularly perform maintenance tasks such as backups, updates, and security checks to ensure the database remains secure and performs optimally.

### Problem

Given the problems, chose suitable type of database

* relational database
  * 
* NoSQL database
  * timeseries data: TimescaleDB

### TimescaleDB

In timeseries data, how to read and update data efficiently is more important than the relationship between each row in tables and the solution lays on how to define the unit to be CRUD in database.

TimescaleDB has two key mechanisms:

* the frequency of slicing a chunk increase when the data per time period increases
* the data would be postponed to the future chunk when the data arrives earlier

which solves problems in the following trivial approaches:

* fixed-duration intervals: slice the data once in a fixed time period; data naturally getting larger as the time pass; as a result, the data stored in each fixed time period increases, which still cause too much data to read problem in the future.

* fixed-sized chunks: slice the data once a fixed amount of data; there may be time lag while saving data into database; as a result, there may be larger data chunk because all the data saved at the same time.

## what


